amesplot-a higher level data plotting software system.wamesplot is an extensible software system designed to make the display of data as simple, painless, and neat as possible.  the system described is hardware-independent and has been implemented on a variety of installations,of different manufacturers, having diverse configurations.  the elements common to all types of data plots are outlined and the way in which these elements may be combined into a system based on simple modules is demonstrated.these modules are specified independently and are independent of the axissystems or other attributes of the plot.  this enables plots of anycomplexity to be constructed by adding or replacing modules.  thebasic syntax of amesplot is outlined, and a brief description is givenof its current utility software, consisting of "macros" to produceself-scaled plots, formal tablets of text-interspersed with subplots,map coastlines, and -d plots.  the system was formulated in a way such that the user could supply the minimum of information,and it should be fully integrable with user's program writtenin most conventional higher languages.  the functions of positioning,locating, and scaling (in the layout of multiple subplots) ofaxes, labels, and all other elements of the plot are handled automaticallyby the software system unless the user specifies otherwise.  the structuring of plots from multiple, independent, self-contained subplots is described.transformation, projection, scaling, rotation, or shifting of entire plots or subplots by the action of one or more simple modules is possible.  the user may interact freely with amesplot at three levels, enabling him to construct his own data markers, alphabetic characters, and transformations, andto produce a variety of artistic and other effects.cacm september, hirschsoln, i..kcomputer graphics, data potting, data displaysyntax, hardware independent software,display device independent software, plot elements, self-scaled plots,user interaction, tablet organization, map display, projection.c. . . .ca jb february ,  : pm